# Incident: 2024-12-04 01-58-25

## Summary

At around 1 today it was noticed that the pizza creation server latency had increased significantly to around 30 seconds.

The cause of this was unclear, as the server is not in our control. The duration could not be verified. (Due to some confusion about assignment specs, traffic was not running the whole 'window' of time, so no reference can be made about when specifically this started)

Further inspection into the cause of the issue led to an inspection of of the requests with increased latency, which revealed a url, which when opened resolved the issue at around 4:50pm Dec 4.

Alert systems in place had been improperly set to allow all latency less than 40 seconds. This resulted in a lack of alerting, as the failure tripped no alerts. This has since been adjusted to a limit of 5 seconds.

## Detection

When did the team detect the incident? How did they know it was happening? How could we improve time-to-detection? Consider: How would we have cut that time by half?

**EXAMPLE**:

This incident was detected when the dashboard was randomly inspected by Aaron.

As described earlier, alerting systems did not trigger, leading to unknown duration of increased latency. As the dashboard had not been inspected since the day before, this error lasted a maximum of 22 hours.

Alerting boundaries will be set up by Aaron so that latency issues in the future will be detected immediately.

## Impact

For a max of 22 hours between 6pm 12/03/24 and 4pm 12/04/24, Many of our users experience a 30 second increase in order latency.

This incident affected 4 customers (80% OF JWT-Pizza USERS), who experienced increased latency.

0 support tickets were submitted.

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _7:30 (dec 3)_ - Aaron triggered chaos testing

- _1:30_ - Aaron inspected dashboard, no abnormalities observed

- _3:00_ - Time period for expected chaos testing begins

- _4:00_ - Aaron inspects dashboard (nothing noticed)

- _6:50_ - Aaron gets out of last meeting. Still nothing on dashboard. Starts artificial traffic.

- _9:49_ - Aaron inspects dashboard again. Realizes that while latency increase coincides with artificial traffic start time, it still is way higher than expected

- _10:00_ - Aaron follows trail to network requests, which lead to URL which resolves problem

## Response

Aaron Farr came online at 6:50 in Grafana. Continued monitoring until 9:49 when issue was noticed and then resolved by Aaron at 10:00

# Root cause

This was planned chaos testing, and resulted in the pizza creation server responding slower than usual.

## Resolution

After inspecting the request and response data on the pizza factory subsystem, we found a URL that when followed resolved the issue.

# Prevention

No other related incidents

# Action items

1. Fix latency alerts [Aaron] (done)
